Add --runtimeconfig (#30000)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/tools/dotnet.md

## Options

Different options are available for:

* Displaying information about the environment.
* Running a command.

> * Running an application with or without the `exec` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Running an application.
```

> * Running an application with the `exec` command.

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Options for displaying environment information and available commands

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD012 -->

> The following options are available when the `dotnet` is used by itself, without specifying a command or an application to run. For example, `dotnet --info` or `dotnet --version`. They print out information about the environment.

Reviewer: `dotnet --version` -- only supported when the SDK installed.

## Options

Different options are available for:

* Displaying information about the environment.
* Running a command.
* Running an application.

### Options for displaying environment information and available commands

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD012 -->

> The following options are available when the `dotnet` is used by itself, without specifying a command or an application to run. For example, `dotnet --info` or `dotnet --version`. They print out information about the environment.

Reviewer 2: The first sentence reads awkwardly to me. One suggestion:

```suggestion
The following options are available when `dotnet` is used by itself, without specifying a command or an application to run. For example, `dotnet --info` or `dotnet --version`. They print out information about the environment.
```

- **`--version`**

>  Prints out the version of the .NET SDK used by `dotnet` commands. Includes the effects of any *global.json* file. Available only when the SDK is installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prints out the version of the .NET SDK used by `dotnet` commands, which may be effected by a *global.json* file. Available only when the SDK is installed.
```

- **`-?|-h|--help`**

  Prints out documentation for a given command. For example, `dotnet build --help` displays help for the `build` command.

- **`command options`**

  Each command defines options specific to that command. See specific command page for a list of available options.

### Options for running an application

> The following options are available when `dotnet` runs an application with or without the `exec` command. For example, `dotnet exec --roll-forward Major myapp.dll` or `dotnet --roll-forward Major myapp.dll`.

Reviewer: I'd remove `exec` here. I've never been entirely clear on its primary use case, but I don't think its the one we want to offer as the go-to command. The other one is good.

@vitek-karas

  Path to the *deps.json* file. A *deps.json* file is a configuration file that contains information about dependencies necessary to run the application. This file is generated by the .NET SDK.

- **`--runtimeconfig <PATH>`**

  Path to a *runtimeconfig.json* file. The file contains run-time settings and is typically named *\<applicationname>.runtimeconfig.json*. For more information, see [.NET runtime configuration settings](../runtime-config/index.md#runtimeconfigjson).

>   This option requires the `exec` subcommand (specify `dotnet exec`).

Reviewer: > This option requires the `exec` subcommand

I'm not familiar with this pattern for docs. It seems like `dotnet exec` should be described in such a way that all its arguments don't need this extra information, but that its contextual.

For example, docker docs have enough context to not need this extra sentence. https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/run/

> subcommand

If `exec` is a subcommand, what's a `command`?

Reviewer 3: The only reason this line was added is because `--runtimeconfig` can't be used from `dotnet` directly - I think that's the core problem that needs to be solved.

If I take a random dll and try to run `dotnet --runtimeconfig blah.json my.dll`, the corehost traces tell me that the `--runtimeconfig` token was used by the runtime to determine the application to launch. This doesn't happen with other known args like `--additional-deps` - for those I can see trace logs saying that 'Parsed known arg --additional-deps = baz'.

If we solve this disjoint, then there is no inconsistency between `dotnet my.dll` and `dotnet exec my.dll`, and we no longer need this clarification.

Reviewer: > I think that's the core problem that needs to be solved.

I don't think that's the core problem. I think the docs should be written in such a way that the extra context doesn't need to be stated. Each verb has their own special arguments, right? Is the issue that this argument is a host not verb argument, but can only be used with that verb?

Reviewer 3: Yeah, that's what I'm trying to say. If the host had the same behavior, then we could document both `dotnet the host` and `dotnet exec` in the same way, with two distinct lines in the `usage` section:

```
USAGE:
dotnet <dll> ....
dotnet exec <dll> ...
```

and have symmetry of meaning and behavior. We could even say something like "`dotnet <dll>` behaves exactly like `dotnet exec <dll>`, so if you're automating/scripting/etc consider using `dotnet exec` to provide clarity to the end user" or along those lines.

Reviewer: @vitek-karas -- is there any reason why `--runtime-config` is only offered with `dotnet exec`?

Reviewer 4: I just checked and it IS intentional, but I have no idea why. This has been there since forever: https://github.com/dotnet/core-setup/commit/aafcd69236f5e555795e35daec1ee8b5863edf45

I can't think of a technical reason - I'm pretty sure we could make it work in both cases if we wanted... but it's a rarely used feature (and honestly we don't really want people to use it anyway as it goes against SDK).

Reviewer: Got it. Not a feature request.

Perhaps we should just move this argument to `dotnet exec`, however, I don't see that documented.

Author: > Perhaps we should just move this argument to `dotnet exec`, however, I don't see that documented.

That's what this PR does.  The option is added on line 40 for `dotnet exec <PATH_TO_APPLICATION>` but not above that for `dotnet <PATH_TO_APPLICATION>`.

Reviewer 5: It looks like `--runtimeconfig` and `--depsfile` are the two that we only support with `dotnet exec`. No idea why either - my best guess would be it was for some test runner support and scoped to only be where it was needed.

Should we add a similar note to `--depsfile`?

Reviewer: > That's what this PR does.

That's not clear to me. I was expecting `dotnet exec` in this list:

https://github.com/dotnet/docs/blob/0542d6b0ae90b73f025d7b142a3ded438af374c9/docs/core/tools/dotnet.md#general

Author: Good point, I'll add it there.

- **`--depsfile <PATH>`**

  Path to a *deps.json* file. A *deps.json* file is a configuration file that contains information about dependencies necessary to run the application. This file is generated by the .NET SDK.

- **`--runtimeconfig <PATH>`**

  Path to a *runtimeconfig.json* file. A *runtimeconfig.json* file contains run-time settings and is typically named *\<applicationname>.runtimeconfig.json*. For more information, see [.NET runtime configuration settings](../runtime-config/index.md#runtimeconfigjson).

## dotnet commands

### General

| Command                                       | Function                                                            |
| --------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [dotnet build](dotnet-build.md)               | Builds a .NET application.                                          |
| [dotnet build-server](dotnet-build-server.md) | Interacts with servers started by a build.                          |
| [dotnet clean](dotnet-clean.md)               | Clean build outputs.                                                |

> | [dotnet exec](dotnet-clean.md)                | Runs a .NET application.                                            |

Reviewer: Looks like `dotnet-clean.md` twice is a typo or an in-between state.
